So today I'm going to talk about
basically some of the nuts and
bolts features of Project Builder.
And we're going to have a
few of the engineers up here.
What we're going to cover in detail
is basically what should be your
first day of using Project Builder.
We want to talk you through
getting the code that you have
into the new Project Builder.
I'll cover the first bullet up there,
importing a project to Project Builder.
Then Anders Bertelrud
is going to come up,
one of the designers of the build system,
and talk about how we customize the build
process to support some other features
that you may have in your project.
And then finally, Mike Ferris,
who is the lead designer of the
CFBundle objects on Mac OS X,
will talk about how you actually
create those bundles for Mac OS X.
So just to recap what we
covered in the last session,
Project Builder sits at the
middle of a lot of other tools.
It's sort of the central clearinghouse
for the developer experience.
We talked to Interface Builder.
We talked to the performance tools.
We'll be integrating with
all the WebObjects tools.
And we invoke command line compiler
and debuggers to do the real work of
producing your project and debugging it.
So this is what Project Builder
looks like today.
In order to actually
get your code into it,
we've built in some support for three
different streamline transitions,
one taking a basic source code project.
Taking a Project Builder Woe project,
the old pb.project files,
and also we've built in
fairly recently support for
importing CodeWarrior projects.
So importing source directories.
Importing source directories
is fairly straightforward.
This is a mainline feature
of the application.
So we allow you to do it not only
when you're creating a new project,
but whenever you want to add some
more source code to your project.
Basically, in creating a new project,
you can make the project either an
empty project or any of the existing
project templates that we support.
Make sure you have some targets in there.
It makes it a little more convenient
when you actually import the source code.
And then just grab some
folders out of the finder,
drop them into our group
view of Project Builder,
and you're good to go.
You'll get all the factory default build
settings that you usually would have.
So you may have to do some
work there if you're importing
a bare source code directory.
For importing pb.project files,
the old Project Builder or
Project Builder Woe or whatever
we decide to call it today,
we have a very sophisticated
automatic import feature.
This is a feature that we
used ourselves to bring the
PBX code base into our own IDE.
So we initially started developing
on the old Project Builder
when we got enough stuff there.
We did switch the entire code base.
We switched the entire team over
to developing on our own app.
And we've had a lot of testing
on this because there are a lot
of people who are using the old
Project Builder at Apple and need to
get their code into the new system.
So we've had a lot of testing.
We have a lot of features on this.
So if you currently
have a pb.project file,
this should be a very
simple process for you.
The one caveat is that if you've written
sophisticated makefile post-AML and
pre-AML in old Project Builder users,
we'll know what that is.
The makefile pre-AML will have
some settings of build variables.
You may have to go into the
target editor and set up some
of those settings yourself.
And if you have sophisticated
build actions that you've
put into the post-AML,
we do have support for that
in the new environment,
but our model is very different.
So we aren't able to give
you an automated transfer
of those build actions.
But we do give you a very
straightforward way to implement them.
And hopefully it
shouldn't take much time,
unless your project is
extremely sophisticated.
We also support Code Warrior projects.
The Code Warrior projects that we support
are the XML Code Warrior projects.
So you'll need to output an
XML-based file from Code Warrior.
And then again,
just invoke our automatic import feature.
We'll bring in all of
your groups and files.
We'll bring in the compatible
targets as far as we can go.
Some of the rad features
and things are not,
of course, in our project model,
so they don't translate over.
And we'll translate
your compiler settings,
again, as best we can,
given that we're running on a tool that's
very different from what MetroWorks uses.
And again, as you can imagine,
once you import the Code Warrior project,
you'll have to tune it a little bit.
You'll have to tweak some of
the settings to get some of the
features that you're going to want.
And as we see some of the
tuning that needs to be done,
again, this is a newer feature,
we'll be adding more and more automation,
and hopefully get better and better,
and eventually on par with
the current level of old
Project Builder import that we have.
So now I'd like to bring
up Anders Bertelrud.
He's one of the designers
of our build system.
And he's also the guy that's
responsible for that whizzy slide
views that you see in the UI.
So what we're going to do is just
cover the three ways that I just
talked about of getting your
source code into Project Builder.
The first way is going to be a
simple import of a source directory.
We'll use the simple text
sources to show this.
So the first thing that Anders is going
to do is bring up the new project.
Because we want to start out with
a Carbon application because we
know that simple text is going to
be eventually a Carbon application.
So he'll select that and choose
a spot for it on the file system.
and then we're ready to go.
So what we get here is basically created
out of our project template and it does
give you a lot of nice factory defaults.
It gives you default target.
It gives you some standard groups.
But since we're going to
be importing these things,
we really don't want the sources
that we put in here or the resources.
So I'll just select those and
delete them from the project.
And so now what we can do is we
can go out to Finder and we can
grab the simple text source base
[Transcript missing]
So the other thing that I wanted
to show is just the way that
we have imported these files.
If Anders wants to just bring
up the inspector briefly.
If we raise the inspector,
what we try to do is make all of
these files as relative as possible.
That allows you to the most flexibility
in terms of structuring your project.
So we'll bring everything in as a group
relative reference if you've told us to
recursively create those groups for you.
And of course you're welcome
to change that to whatever
kind of reference you want.
But most of these imports are going
to import these relative to the path
we've assigned to the particular group.
So why don't we close that project.
And now what we're going to
do is import the same project,
but we've created an old
pb.project file in here,
and we're going to import
it as a pb.project file.
So it says pb.woldproject,
and what Anders has done here
is brought up our file importer,
and you can select that
off of the file menu.
He's selecting the pb.project file.
And all you have to do once you've
selected that file is just hit finish.
And because we own the PB.Project model,
we go through and take every setting
that we know about and translate
it over into the new project model.
So again, we have the groups and files.
And what you'll see here,
if you're an old Project Builder user,
you'll be very used to the
hierarchy that we've set up,
very much like the old
suitcases that were in PBWO.
And of course,
the difference is that now you
can go through and move these
files around however you want.
It affects nothing in the build system.
It affects nothing in the
file system unless you tell
it you want it to affect it.
And again,
we'll have a very similar target,
so Anders can show that target setting.
Basically, this is going to look very
similar with the added benefit
that because we know this format,
because we have a lot
more information here,
we're able to bring over a lot more
of your compiler settings and build
settings that you're used to having
inside of the old Project Builder.
So finally,
we're going to show the newest feature,
which is importing the
CodeWarrioR project.
And again, we've made simple text
into a CodeWarrioR project.
We've saved it out as XML.
Anders will raise the
CodeWarrioR importer at this point.
Select the XML file and hit finish.
And what we have is, again,
Project Builder project.
We've got our sources.
We've got all of our
files that we expect.
Again,
this is going to be paralleling whatever
structure you have in CodeWarrior.
The other thing that we have is, again,
a target.
And since we actually have two targets
inside of the CodeWarrior project,
we brought both of them
over and translated all the
settings that we knew about.
And again, this is going to look very
similar to the Project Builder
project that you've seen before.
So that's how you get your
code into Project Builder.
And now I'm going to go
back to the slides and let
Anders come out and talk about
How you customize the build process
once you've got everything in there.
Thanks, John.
So now we've seen a couple of different
ways in which you can bring your
source code into Project Builder.
And now that we have a project,
I'm going to talk a little bit
about how you can customize it.
So again,
here's how Project Builder fits in.
And we've seen the importing.
And we're focusing on this part.
So there are a couple of ways
of customizing the build.
I'm going to talk about three
of them in roughly the order
of increasing flexibility.
First one is just editing build settings,
compiler flags, linker flags,
preprocessor defines, that type of thing.
If you need more flexibility,
you can actually modify how a target is
built and add your own build phases to,
for example, copy files or run scripts
at any point in the build.
If you have a GNU based project,
for example, with its own make file or
highly customized build system,
you can also, as Dave mentioned in
the previous session,
you can also invoke a custom build
tool to build the project that way.
Editing the build settings.
Again,
a Project Builder target consists of
one or more build settings that do
things like compile your source files,
incorporate the resources
into the product,
and that finally link your
compiled sources against the
frameworks and produce the output.
And there are target settings that apply
to one or more of these build phases.
For example, compiler flags.
Do you want optimization?
What kind of alignment do you want?
Those sorts of things.
We also have other target-based
settings such as the install location.
If you intend to install this
framework somewhere on the file system,
where do you intend it to go
when you build for deployment?
You can also add custom settings.
In the first session,
Dave showed the target settings panel.
And we have a table view where
right now it's the expert mode.
And so you can add really any
build setting that you want.
And those will be available in the build
phases that I'm going to describe later.
So this is the simplest way of
editing your project settings.
Just checking switches,
entering values and tables.
And for many of the projects,
this is all you ever need to do.
If you need a little
bit more flexibility,
you can actually add a build phase to
copy arbitrary sets of files or folders
to arbitrary places in the file system.
You can either copy it into
special folders inside of the
bundle that you're building.
For example,
if you're building an application, well,
that's packaged as an
application wrapper in Mac OS X,
and it has various sub-locations.
So, for example,
if you're packaging frameworks
together with your application,
they would go into a
frameworks subfolder.
and you could actually use copy
files build phase to accomplish that.
[Transcript missing]
The other thing you can use it
for is a post-install action.
Suppose you want to change some
permissions of a particular file
or suppose you want to invoke a
tool like NewTar to just package
up your project or whatever.
You can do anything you like with that.
And finally,
the feature that Dave mentioned that
we've talked about before for a project
with its own customized build system,
such as, for example, a new project,
a project that you got from somewhere
and you want to commit sources,
commit your changes back to that
without changing the build system,
you can use a legacy target.
And what you can do in this
case is to take the project,
bring it into Project Builder
so you can use the editor,
debugger, all those nice features,
and for the build, you say,
"Go use that tool over there."
And that could be GNU Make,
for example,
or it could be any other type of a tool.
And in fact, you can invoke any
command you want there,
but typically it will
be used for Makefiles.
And so the one caveat
with this is it's great.
You get a lot of flexibility.
You can override the
build system completely,
but of course that means that
if you add project files,
Project Builder's not
going to know about that,
so in that case you will still
have to edit the Makefile.
So we expect most people will want
to bring their projects in through
one of the importers and use it
as a full Project Builder project,
but we have this legacy target feature in
case you're working with open software,
things like that.
So I'm going to ask Mike Ferris to
come up and help me do a demo of this.
So, show off some of these features.
First of all, let's go ahead and make the
simple text "target" active.
It's already active.
And let's go ahead and
add an icon in this case.
Sorry, I'm on the wrong script here.
So we imported the SimpleText project,
and if we go to the SimpleText.c file,
I've taken a look at this project before,
so I happen to know that it has
a special preprocessor defined
to use the new framework syntax
for importing Carbon headers.
That define was not set in
the CodeWarrior XML project,
so let's go ahead and add that now.
So let's scroll down to
the SimpleText.c there,
and we'll just go ahead and
copy the string so we can paste
it into the build settings.
And if we switch over to the targets,
And we go into the build settings.
We see some build settings here,
the general settings up at the top,
the install location.
We have some directed user interface at
this point for the compiler settings.
As Mike shows you,
you can collapse those if you
don't want to see all of it.
And let's go down to the build flags
at the bottom there and add a -d
and then paste that preprocessor
macro into the other C flags.
So we're planning on adding directed
user interface for this as well,
a nice little list of all the
preprocessor macros you want to define,
those kinds of things.
In the meantime,
the expert mode gives you the
ability to add anything you want.
So that should be all we need.
So let's go ahead and hit Build and
watch Simple Text Build here.
So as Dave mentioned
in the first session,
the top part of the pane there shows
the warnings and errors that you have.
The bottom part shows
the expert settings.
That part shows the expert build log.
That part can actually be
collapsed if you want by just
dragging the split view there.
We have a couple of warnings that
I think are harmless in this case,
but we do have some link errors,
and those look like the speech
synthesis framework is missing.
So Mike's going to go
up to the project menu.
And we'll add the framework.
It's a standard system framework.
The open panel takes them to the
standard system location for frameworks
and just choose speech synthesis.
And if we build again,
so let's go ahead and add that
to the simple text Mac OS target.
And as you see,
it appears down in the list of frameworks
that this target links against.
So if we hit build again,
it should work fine this time.
So it's linking to simple text.
And build succeeded.
So let's go ahead and run that.
And so we built Simple Text after
importing it from the CodeWarrioR project
that had been exported as an XML,
and we're able to get it up
and running and building here.
in fairly short order.
That's great.
Let's go ahead and take a look at
some of the other ways in which
you can configure the build here.
Let's add a copy-files build phase.
Suppose we have a release node
file that we want to install into
a particular file system location
after we build for install.
Mike's going to add a new
copy-files build phase.
As you can see in the pop-up there,
we list a set of standard
system locations.
Currently it says resources,
but you can pick anything there that's
inside of the application wrapper.
These are standard sub-locations.
Or you can pick an absolute path,
and that's what Mike's
going to do in this case.
And just enter an appropriate path in the
system for Apple-provided release nodes.
You won't be installing here.
And we're going to check the little box
that says "copy only when installing."
[Transcript missing]
I'll take a look at that after the demo.
All right, so we have a path.
So what we need to do now is to add the
actual release note file to the project.
And so under the project
menu we have add files.
We're going to go ahead and add,
just have a sample RTF file there.
It could be anything.
And we're going to add that.
And we're not going to add it to a target
in this case because we're going to drag
it into our special build phase later on.
So we just want to add it
to the project for now.
and it's going to appear right
there under speech synthesis and
we can just drag and drop it into
the files area of the target.
We can drag as many files as we want,
any folders as well, and they'll all get
put into that location.
We can also add other copy files,
build faces if we had other locations.
Okay, so now I'm going to show how we
could actually add custom build
commands as part of the build.
So Mike's going to add a
shell script build phase and
And by default, the shell there is BenSH,
but it could be anything.
You could, in fact,
invoke Perl and invoke some Perl
commands as part of your build.
In this case,
this may be hard for those of
you sitting in the back to read,
but Mike's entering a little script that
just echoes the one-line timestamp to a
log file whenever we build the project.
So it just emits a log whenever
the project builds successfully.
So that's all done.
And we're not checking the run only
when installing box because in this
case we actually want it to execute
every time we build the product.
So if we just hit build,
we're going to see
Then we saw some output
in the build log up there,
but if we open the build log file,
we can actually see that a
line was emitted to that file.
So right there.
So just to show it's not fake,
we'll build again and then just revert
to show you that it's executing all
those commands and it's updating.
So this is a powerful way in which
you can add any kind of customization
you want as part of a build.
And it really is quite flexible.
And finally,
let's go ahead and show a legacy target.
And in this case,
I'm actually not going to
invoke new make to invoke make.
I'm actually going to
invoke some other tool,
just an arbitrary command.
So Mike is creating a new
legacy make file target.
Let's call it count lines.
We're going to have a little command that
counts all the lines of your source code.
And the default tool is bin make,
and the default parameter is the action.
So if you don't change anything,
it's going to try to invoke make,
which is going to look for make file.
And this is probably the primary
reason you would use a legacy target.
We're just going to enter a fun little
command here to just find your source
files and pass them through a little
tool that's going to count the lines.
So just give us an idea of
how flexible this can be.
Does that look correct?
Looks right.
So that's going to
find our headers files,
our C files, and the resource files.
And so let's go ahead and
make this target active.
If you notice, Mike's checking the
little check box there.
And we'll just hit build
to run this target.
And in this case,
All it does is just count
the lines of source code.
So you can actually use this for a wide
range of different uses if you want.
And normally, you're not going to need to
do this to build your product,
but you may want to do
this kind of thing to,
for example,
package up your sources or whatever.
And by dependencies,
we can also make the count lines
be invoked any time the main
simple text dot o is built.
So just add a dependency,
make simple text dot o
be the default target,
and we can build it.
And the output will
get emitted to the log,
and then we'll proceed with the build.
So this summarizes some of the
features of Project Builder.
We're working on adding convenient UI so
that you should never have to type any
of these commands if you don't want to.
But the power is there underneath,
so you can do pretty much
anything you'd like to.
And at this point,
I'm going to hand it over to Mike,
and he's going to talk a little
bit about the application features,
application packaging
features of Project Builder.
Mike Ferriss:
So I can't emphasize enough how
important the application packaging and
the bundling structure is to Mac OS X.
It's pervasive.
Almost everything on the
system is packaged as a bundle.
And so it was very important for us to
make sure that we had full support for
building bundles in Project Builder.
We've seen this slide
a couple times before,
and we're going to be talking about
how Project Builder builds stuff.
So I want to just briefly
talk a little bit,
and then we'll get right on to the demo
because that's the most exciting part.
So we'll talk a little bit
about building bundles.
We'll talk a little bit about
managing your Info.plist,
which is one of the main
pieces of your bundle.
It provides all the metadata
that's needed to tell other
subsystems what your bundle does.
We'll talk a little bit
about resource handling.
We'll talk about bundle resources,
which are just files
that go in your bundle.
as well as resource-managed
resources for Carbon Apps.
And specifically,
I want to touch on localization
features and how we support
that in Project Builder.
And then finally,
we'll talk a little bit about how you
get just random other stuff embedded
in your bundle if you need it to be.
So first of all, Project Builder has full
support for building bundles.
Applications, frameworks,
and bundle targets all
produce bundles in the end.
Bundle targets is what
you would use to build,
say, a plug-in.
We're going to automatically construct
the bundle as part of the build process.
So you don't have to
configure that at all.
If you have an application
framework or bundle target,
we're going to produce
the full bundle for you.
And the build system knows
where all the pieces go.
And for any pieces that
you have that are custom,
you can tell us where to put them.
Now, the Info.plist is an XML file
that each bundle has,
which declares various things that are
needed by different pieces of the system.
So CFBundle, which is the core foundation
facility for dealing with bundles,
uses a lot of keys in the bundle.
For instance,
the executable name of the actual
binary that is inside your bundle that
is the app that's supposed to be run,
that's declared in the Info.plist.
The finder also declares various
things that it wants to find in your
Info.plist to do things like associate
documents with your application,
to figure out what icon to
show for your application,
and so forth.
And Project Builder allows you to
manage your Info.plist completely.
And we provide some custom UI for all
the common stuff that you want to do.
We'll show that a little bit.
And we also provide an arbitrary plist
editor if you have custom content that
you need to put in your plist that
you'll use if we've forgotten something.
And in the custom UI,
you can do it in the expert UI.
So, okay, resources.
There's two kinds of resources.
The term is a little bit overloaded.
Bundle resources are just files
that go inside your bundle,
and resource manager resources are the
resources that you typically find in the
resource fork of a Mac OS application.
Both of these types of resources in
Mac OS X can be global or localizable.
When they're localizable,
you have multiple versions for different
languages that you're going to support.
They can also be platform-specific.
So if you need to have a slightly
different version of a resource for
your Mac OS 9 Carbon application and
your Mac OS X Carbon application,
you can still package those
all in the same bundle.
And the current version of
the resource is going to be
the same as the previous one.
will be used depending on which
platform the app is running on.
Now, Project Builder also helps you to
make sure that the bundles that you're
building satisfy the requirements.
And the main requirements are
that for a localizable resource,
you must have a version for
your development region.
Your project is going to
have a development region,
so by default that's English,
but if you choose to develop
your primary interface in
French or in Japanese or whatever,
you can do that.
The bundle knows what its
development region is.
Project Builder knows what
the development region is.
And it's going to make sure that,
at the very least,
you have a version of each resource
for the development region.
And then you can have versions
for all the other regions as well.
And then finally, if you're going to have
platform-specific resources,
you also must have a
platform-generic resource.
And that's just in case you find
yourself running on a platform
that you did not anticipate,
there'll be a version to use.
Okay, and then finally, we'll cover,
like I said, other bundle content.
You can use copy files build phases,
as has been mentioned before,
to copy stuff into your bundle.
Tools can be put into the executables
directory of your bundle if your
app needs to make use of some
command line tool in some cases.
You can put frameworks inside the bundle.
You can put other support files,
whatever you want to put in there.
All right,
now I'm going to invite Anders back
up to do some of this demoing.
So the first thing we're going to do,
because of course, Aqua,
you have to have an icon for Aqua.
So let's add an icon to simple text.
Now, the CodeWarrior project did not have
the ICNS file as part of the project,
so it didn't import when we
imported that CodeWarrior project,
but I happen to know that
there is an ICNS file here.
So Anders is going to actually go and
add that ICNS file to the project.
And we'll go ahead and let it get
added to the simple text target.
And OK, you see it appear there.
And if we actually go to the
target editor for simple text,
You'll see that it also appeared
in the bundle resources phase.
In Mac OS X, icons are just files that
go inside the bundle.
They're stored in the ICNS format,
but they're just separate files
that sit inside the resources
directory of your bundle.
So Project Builder knew to put that
file into the bundle resources phase
so that it'll be copied when you build.
Now the other thing, though,
is that we have to tell the info.p list
about our icons so that Finder will know
that it's supposed to display it for us.
Now we do that in the application
settings tab of the target.
And you can see that there's
a bunch of text fields here.
Anders will enter the icon
name in the icon field.
And then while we're here,
maybe we can set a few other things.
We should probably have a creator
code other than for question marks,
so let's do that.
And it's a good idea for bundles to
have an identifier string as well.
Bundle identifiers are
useful for integrating with
the CFPreferences facility.
They're also useful for locating the
core foundation bundle instance at
runtime for your application or for your
framework or for your loadable bundle.
Okay, and by the way,
we recommend Java package naming
conventions for the identifiers
just to ensure that uniqueness.
Now, we have settings for a bunch
of stuff in the custom UI here,
but there's more stuff,
and we'll be adding more
custom UI in the future,
but we also have this expert mode.
And this just shows you
the raw property list.
You can edit stuff there arbitrarily
if you have custom content that
you want to put in your plist,
because maybe your program
wants to access it at runtime,
you can do that there.
You'll notice that the things
that we changed in the custom
UI have already showed up here.
Now, we won't bother with any
other plist settings now,
though.
So let's move on to resources
and in particular localization.
Now, Anders is going to go ahead and go
find all the rest of the .R files,
because actually in
the CodeWarrio project,
the only one that was part
of the project is main.R,
because it just imports
all the other ones.
But because we want to
do some localization,
we'll go ahead and add all the
other .R files to the project,
just so we have them to work with.
So Anders is finding all those,
and we'll add them.
Now we won't add them to any target
because the main.R is already part
of our resource manager build phase,
and it just imports all the other ones.
So we're not gonna bother with
adding them to the target,
but now they're part of our project.
There's one in particular, localized.R,
that happens to contain all of the
strings that need to be localized
in simple text interfaced.
So that's the one that we wanna
make a localized version of.
And to do that,
we'll use the project inspector.
And you can see there's a pulldown
called localization and platform.
And all we need to do is say,
make this a localized resource.
You'll notice that a disclosure
triangle appeared next to it,
and if we disclose that,
you can see that there's basically
a list of the various versions
that we have of this resource.
When we first make it localized,
you're only going to have a version
for your development region.
But the whole point of this is
we want to localize the thing,
so let's make another variant for, say,
Japanese.
Now notice that it added
another line there.
So we have English and Japanese now.
The English version, or sorry,
the Japanese version starts out as
just a copy of the English version,
but it's a separate copy.
So now you can go in and
edit the Japanese version to
translate it into Japanese.
And the Project Builder build
system takes care of all of this.
So it knows where the global resources
are supposed to go and the localized
resources are supposed to go.
It compiles them all separately.
It puts them in the right places
and everything will be automatic.
So that's just a taste of
the localization support.
And finally,
let's just show one more thing,
which is let's say that Simple Text had
a command line tool that it wanted
to run in some circumstances.
Of course,
it wouldn't show it to the user at all,
but it would maybe use it in
the background to do some stuff.
And you would like to have that command
line tool be part of Simple Text.
So let's go ahead and
create a new target.
and it will be a tool target that
we'll just call My Helper Tool.
So now we have this new target,
and if you open it up,
we can see that it doesn't
actually have any files in it,
and we're not actually
going to build a tool now.
But this would-- if we filled in
some source files to be compiled,
this would build us a command line tool.
Now, we want to set up a dependency
because for us to build simple
text and have it be complete,
we also have to build
this command line tool.
So Anders will just set up the
target dependency to make sure
that the helper tool builds
whenever we build simple text.
And if we switch back to the files tab,
When we added the tool
target in the products group,
which is sort of an automatically
managed group of the project,
you'll see that a line was
added for the helper tool.
This line refers to the actual
tool that will be produced.
It shows up in red because
we haven't built it yet,
so it doesn't actually exist on the disk,
but the reference is there
and we can make use of it.
So we'll go back to
the simple text target,
And we're going to create another
one of these copy files build phases.
Now we can't use the one we did
before because this one is going
to copy stuff to a different place.
So we'll just do a separate one.
And we did an absolute path one before.
This time what we want is for
the tool to be installed into the
executables area of the bundle.
So we just choose executables.
If you wanted it to be nested
underneath the executables somewhere,
you could use that subpath field,
but we don't want to do that.
We also don't want to do the only one
installing because this tool should be
part of the thing whenever we build it.
And finally, we have to tell it what
it's going to copy.
So we just drag in the reference
for the helper tool there.
And now, whenever we build Simple Text,
it'll first build that tool and
then make sure that tool gets
installed into the executables of
the Simple Text app package so that
Simple Text can find it at runtime.
Now, this is just sort of a taste of
the degree to which we've tried to
integrate the bundle packaging scheme
into Project Builder's basic model.
And we can--there'll be some more
detail on some of this in the
Mac OS X localization session,
especially as it applies to localizing
Carbon and Cocoa applications.
For now, I want to invite John back
up here one last time.
And he's going to sum
some of this up for us.
And then we'll do some Q&A.
So what we talked about today is just
the first step in using Project Builder.
There's a lot of other stuff
that we could have covered today.
But we'll leave that for
now for you to explore.
Again, you can take any one of these
three variants of a project,
pull it into Project Builder,
use the app then to customize
it however you want.
And then finally,
produce one of the Mac OS X bundles,
an app, a framework,
or a kernel-loadable module.
So there's some support resources,
public emailing list if you
have some feedback for us.
And the feedback alias is
Mac OS Tools Feedback@group.apple.com.
And we also have the
fee-based support with DTS.